


  
  
  
  Programming Tools for the Data Scientist: Assignment 4
  
  
  




  CSCI-UA.0381-001
   Assignment Number 4   Due at Midnight after the 11th Class

 Most of the files mentioned in this description are in the shared  DataScienceTools/Lecture4_scripts/  directory for you to use.

    Copy  tic_tac_toe.py  into your local directory and
  create a new program that incorporates this code, e.g., by importing
  it. The program is currently designed so that two humans play against
  each other, continually entering the row and column of the next move
  until a game ends in a win or a draw. Your task is to replace one of
  the human players with an automated "computer" player that follows a
  set of rules. Assume that the human player is X, the automated
  player is Y and it is random who goes first.  The automated player should
  never lose and it should win if the human player makes a
  mistake.  Your rules should include the following:
      
	 If there are two in a row, followed by an empty position
	(along a row, column, or diagonal), the automated system
	should fill the empty space. 
	
	 When the automated player goes first, it should put its
	piece in a corner or the center, never any of the side
	  (non-corner) positions. 
	 If the automated player goes second, its move should
	depend on whether the human's first move was the corner, the
	  center, or the side. 
	 And so on ... 
	 See the sixth page
	of 
	Crowley and Sirgler (1993) "Flexible Strategy Use in Young
	Children’s Tic-Tat-To", Cognitive Science 17,
	531&ndash;561. for more details on the sort of rules that need to be implemented.
	
   
    Write a Python program that uses an expanded version
  of [0-9][0-9.,]* to recognize all the numbers found in
  ‘all-OANC.txt’. The numbers should not end in a comma (,) or
  period ( . ). The numbers should include numeric expressions
  that contain any number word in the list on the next slide.  The
  number patterns should also allow for combinations of digits and
  words, e.g., 100.5 million.  It should help you to use the
  following list of number words  [‘one’, ’two’, ’three’, ’four’,
  ’five’, ’six’, ’seven’, ’eight’, ’nine’, ’ten’, ’eleven’, ’twelve’,
  ’thirteen’, ’fourteen’, ’fifteen’, ’sixteen’, ’seventeen’,
  ’eighteen’, ’nineteen’, ’twenty’, ’thirty’, ’forty’, ’fifty’,
  ’sixty’, ’seventy’, ’eighty’, ’ninety’, ’hundred’, ’thousand’,
  ’million’, ’billion’, ’trillion’] in your regular expression
      patterns. 
     The final version of this python program should be able to be
      run from the command line in a terminal as follows: 
    
       python3 get_numbers.py input_file output_file   
      Where  intput_file  is the name of the input file and 
      output_file  is the name of the output file.  For
      example,   get_numbers all-OANC.txt
      all-numbers.txt   would find all the instances of
      numbers in all-OANC.txt and produce a file (all-numbers.txt)
      containing all instances of numbers, 1 per line.  Note that
      "python3" or "python" or any version of a call to python is OK.
    
   
    verb_irreg.tsv  has 4 columns (separated by tabs)
  and 5666 rows. The first row labels all the columns. Only
  irregular forms are provided. You should write a program that uses
  these irregular forms as well as some manual rules to fill in all
  the columns for all 5665 verbs, correctly using the word in the
  first column to generate the forms for the other columns.  Some
  sample lines of your output file may include the following:

abandon abandonned abandonned abandonning
accompany accompanied accompanied accompanying
decay decayed decayed decaying
enervate enervated enervated enervating
go went gone going
goggle goggled goggled goggling
huff huffed huffed huffing
imbed imbedded imbedded imbedding
mail mailed mailed mailing
 
It is assumed that the regular forms of these verbs can be derived
from the base form (the first column) in most cases. The exceptions
are provided in the input file. By default, the same rule can be used
to create both the past tense form of the verb and past particple.
For example, that rule doubles the "n" in  abandon  and adds
"ed" to form. However, the input file tells you that this rule does
not work for  go  and that  went  and  gone  fill
these two rolls.  The normal rule does apply for the present particple
forms of both  abandon  and  go , doubling the "n" in
the first case.  The rules you implement should add "ed" and "ing" to
the base form of the verb, with the following provisos:
  In some cases the final letter of the base form should be doubled 
   A final "e" of the base form should be deleted 
   In some cases, a final "y" should be replaced by an "i" before adding "ed" 
  
All the rules will depend on the final 3 letters of the base form.  In particular, it
is important whether each of these three letters are vowels or
consonants.
 Just like the previous program, the final version of this program
should run from the command line and have 2 arguments: an input file and an output file.  For example,    python3 fill_in_verb_endings.py verb_irreg.tsv verb_Irreg2.tsv    should produce a modified version of  verb_irreg.tsv  called  verb_irreg2.tsv.
    
  



Accessibility



